Refactor and promote ecosystem and tooling doc (#41944)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/dotnet-ai-ecosystem.md

# Overview of the .NET + AI ecosystem

The .NET ecosystem provides many powerful tools, libraries, and services to develop AI applications. .NET supports both cloud and local AI model connections, many different SDKs for various AI and vector database services, and other tools to help you build intelligent apps of varying scope and complexity.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Not all of the SDKs and services presented in this doc are maintained by Microsoft. When considering an SDK, make sure to evaluate its quality, licensing, support and compatibility to ensure they meet your requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Not all of the SDKs and services presented in this doc are maintained by Microsoft. When considering an SDK, make sure to evaluate its quality, licensing, support, and compatibility to ensure they meet your requirements.
```

## Semantic Kernel for .NET

> [Semantic Kernel](semantic-kernel-dotnet-overview.md) is an open-source SDK that enables AI integration and orchestration capabilities in your .NET apps. This SDK is generally the recommended AI orchestration tool for .NET apps that use one or more AI services in combination with other APIs or web services, data stores, custom code and beyond. Semantic Kernel benefits enterprise developers in the following ways:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Semantic Kernel](semantic-kernel-dotnet-overview.md) is an open-source SDK that enables AI integration and orchestration capabilities in your .NET apps. This SDK is generally the recommended AI orchestration tool for .NET apps that use one or more AI services in combination with other APIs or web services, data stores, and custom code. Semantic Kernel benefits enterprise developers in the following ways:
```

- Streamlines integration of AI capabilities into existing applications to enable a cohesive solution for enterprise products.
- Minimizes the learning curve of working with different AI models or services by providing abstractions that reduce complexity.
- Improves reliability by reducing the unpredictable behavior of prompts and responses from AI models. You can fine-tune prompts and plan tasks to create a controlled and predictable user experience.

> Visit the [Semantic Kernel documentation](/semantic-kernel/overview/) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Semantic Kernel documentation](/semantic-kernel/overview/).
```

## .NET SDKs for building AI apps

Many different SDKs are available for .NET to build apps with AI capabilities depending on the target platform or AI model. OpenAI models offer powerful generative AI capabilities, while other Azure AI Services provide intelligent solutions for a variety of specific scenarios.

> ### .NET SDKs for OpenAI Models

Reviewer 2: For now, the strongest story is around OpenAI models, but there will be others like Mistral that we want to promote. I think this section is fine for now, but we should also add the official OpenAI package: https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI/

> ### .NET SDKs for OpenAI Models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### .NET SDKs for OpenAI models
```

| NuGet package | Supported models | Maintainer or vendor | Documentation |
|---------------|------------------|----------------------|--------------|
| [Microsoft.SemanticKernel](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.SemanticKernel/) | [OpenAI models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/overview)<br/>[Azure OpenAI supported models](/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models) | [Semantic Kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel) (Microsoft) | [Semantic Kernel documentation](/semantic-kernel/) |
| [Azure OpenAI SDK](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Azure.AI.OpenAI/) | [Azure OpenAI supported models](/azure/ai-services/openai/concepts/models) | [Azure SDK for .NET](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-net) (Microsoft) | [Azure OpenAI services documentation](/azure/ai-services/openai/) |

> | [OpenAI SDK](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI/) | [Azure OpenAI supported models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models) | [OpenAI SDK for .NET](https://github.com/openai/openai-dotnet) (OpenAI) | [OpenAI services documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/overview) |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [OpenAI SDK](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OpenAI/) | [OpenAI supported models](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models) | [OpenAI SDK for .NET](https://github.com/openai/openai-dotnet) (OpenAI) | [OpenAI services documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/overview) |
```

Fixed a typo

### .NET SDKs for Azure AI Services

> Azure offers many other AI services to build specific application capabilities and workflows. Most of these services provide a .NET SDK to integrate their functionality into custom apps. Visit the [Azure AI Services](/azure/ai-services/what-are-ai-services) documentation for a complete list of available services and learning resources. Some of the most commonly used services include the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure offers many other AI services to build specific application capabilities and workflows. Most of these services provide a .NET SDK to integrate their functionality into custom apps. Some of the most commonly used services are shown in the following table. For a complete list of available services and learning resources, see the [Azure AI Services](/azure/ai-services/what-are-ai-services) documentation.
```

| Service | Description |
| --- | --- |
| [Azure AI Search](/azure/search/) | Bring AI-powered cloud search to your mobile and web apps. |
| [Azure AI Content Safety](/azure/ai-services/content-safety/) | Detect unwanted or offensive content. |
| [Azure AI Document Intelligence](/azure/ai-services/document-intelligence/) | Turn documents into intelligent data-driven solutions. |
| [Azure AI Language](/azure/ai-services/language-service/) | Build apps with industry-leading natural language understanding capabilities. |
| [Azure AI Speech](/azure/ai-services/speech-service/) | Speech to text, text to speech, translation, and speaker recognition. |
| [Azure AI Translator](/azure/ai-services/translator/) | AI-powered translation technology with support for more than 100 languages and dialects. |
| [Azure AI Vision](/azure/ai-services/computer-vision/) | Analyze content in images and videos. |

## Develop with local AI models

> .NET apps can also connect to local AI models for many different development scenarios. [Semantic Kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel) is the recommended tool to connect to local models using .NET. Semantic Kernel can connect to many different models hosted across a variety of platforms and abstracts away lower level implementation details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET apps can also connect to local AI models for many different development scenarios. [Semantic Kernel](https://github.com/microsoft/semantic-kernel) is the recommended tool to connect to local models using .NET. Semantic Kernel can connect to many different models hosted across a variety of platforms and abstracts away lower-level implementation details.
```

> For example, you can use [Ollama](https://ollama.com/) to run various AI models locally, including several Small Language Models (Slms) developed by Microsoft:

Reviewer 2: We should add a link to the Local Models quickstart, to help demonstrate how to use these.

| Model | Description |
| --- | --- |

> | [phi3 models](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/phi-3) | A family of powerful, small language models (SLMs) with groundbreaking performance at low cost and low latency. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [phi3 models](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/phi-3) | A family of powerful small language models (SLMs) with groundbreaking performance at low cost and low latency. |
```

> | [orca models](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/orca/) | Research models in tasks such as reasoning over user given data, reading comprehension, math problem solving and text summarization. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [orca models](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/project/orca/) | Research models in tasks such as reasoning over user given data, reading comprehension, math problem solving, and text summarization. |
```
